feat(flutter): dart storage developer preview (#4839)
aws-amplify/docs: src/fragments/lib/storage/flutter/upload.mdx

## Upload File

To upload to S3 from a file, specify the key and the local file to be uploaded. A file can be created locally, or retrieved from the user's device using a package such as [image_picker](https://pub.dev/packages/image_picker) or [file_picker](https://pub.dev/packages/file_picker).

### Upload a local file

<BlockSwitcher>

<Block name="Stable (Mobile)">

import flutter0 from "/src/fragments/lib/storage/flutter/upload/upload-create-file.mdx";

<Fragments fragments={{flutter: flutter0}} />

</Block>

<Block name = "Developer Preview (Mobile & Desktop)">

```dart
import 'dart:io' as io;

> import 'package:amplify_core/src/io/aws_file_platform_io.dart';

Reviewer: We should be exporting this if it's the only way to do it. Having them import a `src/` file is gonna trigger linter warnings for them and generally means we've done something wrong.

</Block>

</BlockSwitcher>

In S3 console, you should see the metadata attached to your file. You can learn more about the different access levels in [File access levels](/lib/storage/configureaccess).

![S3 Metadata](/images/s3_metadata.png)

## Cancel, Pause and Resume Upload Operation (Developer Preview)

Calls to `Amplify.Storage.uploadFile` return a reference to the operation that is performing the upload.

To cancel the upload (for example, in response to the user pressing a Cancel button), you simply call `.cancel()` on the returned upload operation.

<Callout>

The operation control APIs are only available on `S3UploadOperation` in developer preview. A `S3UploadOperation` is able to be paused and resumed when uploading a file that is larger than 5MB.

</Callout>

```dart
S3UploadFileOperation? uploadOperation;

Future<void> uploadFile(String path) {
  try {
    uploadOperation = Amplify.Storage.upload(
      localFile: AWSFile.fromPath(path),
      key: 'example_file.txt',
    );

    final result = await uploadOperation!.result;
    safePrint('Uploaded ${result.uploadedItem.key');
  } on StorageException catch(e) {
    safePrint(e.message);
  }
}

void cancelUpload {

>   uploadOperation?.cancel();

Author: Updated, thanks!

      localFile: AWSFile.fromStream(
        platformFile.readStream!,
        size: platformFile.size,
      ),
      key: platformFile.name,
      onProgress: (progress) {
        safePrint('Fraction completed: ${progress.fractionCompleted}');
      },
    ).result;
    safePrint('Successfully uploaded file: ${result.uploadedItem.key}');
  } on StorageException catch (e) {
    safePrint('Error uploading file: $e');
  }
}
```

</Block>

</BlockSwitcher>

</Block>

</BlockSwitcher>

## Upload data (Developer Preview)

To upload to S3 from a data object, specify the `key` and use `S3DataPayload` to create `data` object from various data formats.

<BlockSwitcher>

<Block name="String">

```dart
Future<void> uploadStringData({
  required String dataString,
  required String key,
}) async {
  try {
    final result = await Amplify.Storage.uploadData(
      data: S3DataPayload.string(
        dataString,
        contentType: 'text/plain',
      ),
      key: key,
    ).result;

    safePrint('Uploaded data: ${result.uploadedItem.key}');
  } on S3Exception catch (e) {
    safePrint(e.message);
  }
}
```

</Block>

<Block name="JSON Object">

```dart
Future<void> uploadJsonObject({

>   required Map<String, Object> json,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  required Map<String, Object?> json,
```

  required String key,
}) async {
  try {
    final result = await Amplify.Storage.uploadData(
      data: S3DataPayload.json(
        json,

>         contentType: 'text/plain',

Reviewer: Remove this

      ),
      key: key,
    ).result;

    safePrint('Uploaded data: ${result.uploadedItem.key}');
  } on S3Exception catch (e) {
    safePrint(e.message);
  }
}
```

</Block>

> <Block name="Data Url">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Block name="Data URL">
```

```dart
// `S3DataPayload.dataUrl()` throws exception on invalid data url string,
// and extracts `contentType` value from the data url string.

> Future<void> uploadDataUrl({

Reviewer: Can we explain what a "data URL" is here? I'm not sure most people would know, especially non-web developers.

}) async {
  try {
    final result = await Amplify.Storage.uploadData(
      data: S3DataPayload.dataUrl(dataUrl),
      key: key,
    ).result;

    safePrint('Uploaded data: ${result.uploadedItem.key}');
  } on S3Exception catch (e) {
    safePrint(e.message);
  }
}
```

</Block>

<Block name="Bytes">

```dart
Future<void> uploadBytes({
  required List<int> bytes,
  required String key,
  required String contentType,
}) async {
  try {
    final result = await Amplify.Storage.uploadData(
      data: S3DataPayload.bytes(
        bytes,
        contentType: contentType,
      ),
      key: key,
    ).result;

    safePrint('Uploaded data: ${result.uploadedItem.key}');
  } on S3Exception catch (e) {
    safePrint(e.message);
  }
}
```

</Block>

</BlockSwitcher>

## Upload Options

You may attach metadata while uploading data or a file via specifying `metadata` in options.

<BlockSwitcher>

<Block name="Stable (Mobile)">

```dart
Amplify.Storage.uploadFile(
  local: File('path/to/file'),
  options: S3UploadFileOptions(
    metadata: <String, String>{
      'project': 'ExampleProject',
    },
  ),
);
```

</Block>

<Block name = "Developer Preview (Mobile, Web & Desktop)">

```dart

> Amplify.Storage.uploadData(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// When uploading data, use `S3UploadDataOptions`
Amplify.Storage.uploadData(
```

  data: S3DataPayload.string(
    'example',
    contentType: 'text/plain',
  ),
  key: 'example.txt',
  options: const S3UploadDataOptions(
    metadata: {
      'project': 'ExampleProject',
    },
  ),
);

> Amplify.Storage.uploadFile(

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// When uploading a file, use `S3UploadFIleOptions`
Amplify.Storage.uploadFile(
```

  data: S3DataPayload.string(
    'example',
    contentType: 'text/plain',
  ),
  key: 'example.txt',
  options: const S3UploadFileOptions(
    metadata: {
      'project': 'ExampleProject',
    },
  ),
);
```

The `Amplify.Storage.getProperties` is available in developer preview allowing retrieve metadata without downloading the file.

</Block>

</BlockSwitcher>

In S3 console, you should see the metadata attached to your file. You can learn more about the different access levels in [File access levels](/lib/storage/configureaccess).

![S3 Metadata](/images/s3_metadata.png)

## Cancel, Pause and Resume Upload Operation (Developer Preview)

> Calls to `Amplify.Storage.uploadFile` return a reference to the operation that is actually performing the upload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calls to `Amplify.Storage.uploadFile` return a reference to the operation that is performing the upload.
```

> To cancel the upload (for example, in response to the user pressing a Cancel button), you simply call cancel() on the upload operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To cancel the upload (for example, in response to the user pressing a Cancel button), you simply call `.cancel()` on the returned operation.
```

<Callout>

> The operation control APIs are only available on `S3UploadOperation` in developer preview. A `S3UploadOperation` is able to be paused and resumable when uploading a file that is larger than 5MB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operation control APIs are only available on `S3UploadOperation` in developer preview. A `S3UploadOperation` is able to be paused and resumed when uploading a file that is larger than 5MB.
```

</Callout>

```dart
S3UploadFileOperation? uploadOperation;

Future<void> uploadFile(String path) {
  try {
    uploadOperation = Amplify.Storage.upload(
      localFile: AWSFile.fromPath(path),
      key: 'example_file.txt',
    );

    final result = await uploadOperation!.result;
    safePrint('Uploaded ${result.uploadedItem.key');
  } on S3Exception catch(e) {
    safePrint(e.message);
  }
}

void cancelUpload {
  uploadOperation?.cancel();
}
```

> ## MultiPart upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Multipart upload
```

> Amplify will automatically perform a S3 multipart upload for files that are larger than 5MB. For more information about S3's multipart upload, see [Uploading and copying objects using multipart upload](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/mpuoverview.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amplify will automatically perform a S3 multipart upload for files larger than 5MB. For more information about S3's multipart upload support, see [Uploading and copying objects using multipart upload](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/mpuoverview.html).
```
